blogpost: Announce deprecation of LSP (#4103)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2021/deprecating-lsp.md

---
title: "Deprecating Language Server support"
author: Eric Fritz
authorUrl: https://eric-fritz.com
description: "We're dropping support for Language Server-based code intelligence from our product effective on 2021-09-01. Note that this will affect all instances that are not running a private extension registry, not just those upgrading to the current version of Sourcegraph."
publishDate: 2021-08-10T12:00-00:00
tags: [blog]
slug: deprecating-lsp
heroImage: /blog/optimizing-code-intelligence-commit-graph.png
socialImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/optimizing-code-intelligence-commit-graph.png
published: true
---

> As of September 1st, 2021, we will be [merging a change](https://github.com/sourcegraph/code-intel-extensions/pull/664) to the Sourcegraph language extensions that drops support for querying Language Servers. This method of [code intelligence](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence) has not been actively supported for over a year.

Reviewer: Did we call out the non support of that in any way during the last year?

Author: We've downplayed it in docs, but that's about it.

> We believe this capability has been unused in the wild for some time. Removing the associated code paths will greatly reduce cognitive clutter around merging search-based and precise code intelligence results, and we'll become more able to iterate quickly to provide a great user experience.

Reviewer: Do we want to call out something around the enterprise usage of it was very low based on our analytics(and we've helped the remaining 1 or 2 users migrate (like the section further down)).

Note that extensions published into Sourcegraph.com's public extension registry are made available **to all instances** (including your private Sourcegraph instance) **immediately** unless your Sourcegraph instance hosts a private extension registry.

### Does this affect my private instance?

> If you haven't heard from us, probably not! We've been working with enterprise customers that we know were still using Language Server-based code intelligence to migrate to our [LSIF-based precise code intelligence](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/precise_code_intelligence).

Reviewer: Do we want to call this out higher in terms of our reasoning?  In that we've solidified on our approach and this brings us to a point of having one single protocol/solution to iterate on.

published: true
---

As of September 6th, 2021, we will be [merging a change](https://github.com/sourcegraph/code-intel-extensions/pull/664) to the Sourcegraph language extensions that drops support for querying Language Servers. This method of [code intelligence](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence) has not been actively supported for over a year, in which time we've solidified our code intelligence approach using [LSIF indexes](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/precise_code_intelligence).

> We believe Language Servers have been unused (with Sourcegraph) ihn the wild for some time. Based on our analytics, enterprise usage was very low. We've helped the remaining one or two users migrate to our LSIF-based precsie code intelligence.

Reviewer: very low -> minimal

> We believe Language Servers have been unused (with Sourcegraph) ihn the wild for some time. Based on our analytics, enterprise usage was very low. We've helped the remaining one or two users migrate to our LSIF-based precsie code intelligence.

Author: For our german audience.

> We believe Language Servers have been unused (with Sourcegraph) ihn the wild for some time. Based on our analytics, enterprise usage was very low. We've helped the remaining one or two users migrate to our LSIF-based precsie code intelligence.

Author: ```suggestion
We believe Language Servers have been unused (with Sourcegraph) in the wild for some time. Based on our analytics, enterprise usage was very low. We've helped the remaining one or two users migrate to our LSIF-based precise code intelligence.
```
